docs: improve clarity and structure of Gas in Sui documentation (#21921)
MystenLabs/sui: docs/content/concepts/tokenomics/gas-in-sui.mdx

---
title: Gas in Sui

> description: A Sui transaction pays for computation and storage. Learn how gas fees, units, rebates, and budgets work.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
description: To perform a transaction on Sui, an account on the network must pay for computation and storage. Learn how gas fees, units, rebates, and budgets work on the Sui network.
```

... | ... | ...
5,000,000 CU | 1,000,001–5,000,000 | Heavy computation
Abort | >5,000,000 | Exceeds limits

Why buckets?

Prevents "gas golfing" (over-optimizing code for small savings).

Allows the gas metering system to evolve without disrupting developers.

 Storage Units {#storage}
Storage units depend on how much new data is written to chain. The rule:

1 byte = 100 storage units

So:

25 bytes = 2,500 units

75 bytes = 7,500 units

Sui’s storage fund model charges storage fees upfront but rebates 99% if the data is later deleted.

Gas Budgets {#gas-budgets}
Every transaction includes a gas budget—the maximum gas you’re willing to pay.

A transaction is accepted only if:

gas_budget >= max(computation_fees, total_gas_fees)

What if it’s too low?
If the gas budget < computation_fees → the entire budget is charged, and the transaction fails.

If gas budget is enough for computation but not storage → computation fees and mutation costs are charged.

The minimum gas budget is 2,000 MIST (0.000002 SUI)
The maximum is 50 billion MIST (50 SUI)

Description | Gas Price | Compute CU | Storage Price | Storage Units | Rebate | Min Budget | Net Fees

> Simple tx, 10 bytes storage | 1,000 | 1,000 | 75 | 1,000 | 0 | 1.075M | 1.075M

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Basic transaction, 10 bytes storage | 1,000 MIST | 1,000 | 75 MIST | 1,000 | 0 MIST | 1,075,000 MIST | 1,075,000 MIST |
```
Don't use tx as it's not certain that people know what it stands for. Don't use mix of digits and abbreviations. Prefer the long form of numbers to remove any doubt. Include units of measure (or intro the table with 'all price values are in MIST' or similar).
